# CI-CD
Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD)

In terms of definition, Continuous integration(CI) is a development practice requiring developers to regularly integrate their own code into the shared/central repository, likely several times a day. And automation tools are introduced to build, package and do unit tests on a dedicated build server to provide immediate feedback through email to the developers. The above processes will be automatically triggered when the programmer commits their code. It could move towards the Continuous Delivery pipeline if the unit tests pass. Continuous Delivery(CD) is a software development practice where software can be released to production anytime. The operation team maintains the automated scripts to automate the process, making the release process efficient and repeatable. Depending on the requirement, the CD pipeline could include setting up the test environment, deploying the software to the test environment and distributing the new version to all users after the quality insurance team confirms.

One of the necessary tools needed for CI/CD is a source control system, and it is usually Git. Git allows keeping track of the changes programmers made to all the files inside a project, manages branches and merges codes. A remote repository on the cloud is needed for the developers to work as a team to access and push changes to and for the build server to access. Some examples are GitHub, Gitlab and Bitbucket. And next, we need to bring in the CI tools to build and package the code and run the unit tests. Some tools are introduced by the remote repository host, such as GitHub Actions and GitLab CI. And the most popular one is Jenkins, an open-source automation server that can help automate the parts of software development related to building, testing, and deploying. Other similar ones are CircleCI and App Center etc. After CI tools build the code and create the artifacts, the next step is to deploy the solution. Most of the above tools also support building the CD pipeline, and Jenkins, again, is the most popular one. Other available CD tools on the market are AWS CodeDeploy, Azure DevOps Project etc.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Notes -- Details of CI/CD process
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To better understand the concept of CI/CD and why to adopt them, we could compare them with the old-school Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC). With SDLC, several groups of developers usually work on different features on different branches of the repository. There is usually a Build&Integration team to integrate the code, compile and build it, and create the package. The latest version of the package and instructions will be passed on to Operation Team to set up the test environment to allow the Quality Assurance team to ensure the features have no defects. The operations team will deploy the software if it is tested perfectly fine. Otherwise, any bugs will report back to the development team to fix the issue and repeat the iteration. With the SDLC practice, the integration happens only once in each iteration. The merging could be painful and time-consuming and could cause a lot of rework and hold up the progress. And it is a rather long feedback circle for developers; they could already forget some details when they get the feedback. Furthermore, manually creating the instruction and setting the test environment led to possible human faults. 

CI/CD are good for solving those pain points. CI divide the responsibility of integrating the code among the developers instead of having a Build&Integration team. Benefiting from the fact that developers know their own code best, the difficulty of merging is most likely lower than in SDLC. The duty of building and packaging are transferred to the build server; it will be done automatically every time a new commit is pushed. The build server will also do the unit tests by itself and provide immediate feedback to the developers so that developers can fix any issues when the code is still fresh in mind. The passed packages will be passed on to the CD pipeline. Instead of setting the environment and deploying manually, the package will be distributed into a test environment with automated scripts. And the duty of the operations team needs to switch to maintaining those scripts. Those scripts could help complete the jobs efficiently, repeatedly and with minimized human faults. The QA team will then test the beta software. If it passes, the deployment could be done potentially by automatic scripts; otherwise, the process starts again.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Reference
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Udemy -- Introduction to Continuous Integration & Continuous Delivery
Udemy -- DevOps , CI/CD(Continuous Integration/Delivery for Beginners)
Atlassian -- What is Continuous Integration | Atlassian  https://www.atlassian.com/continuous-delivery/continuous-integration
Atlassian -- Continuous integration vs. delivery vs. deployment https://www.atlassian.com/continuous-delivery/principles/continuous-integration-vs-delivery-vs-deployment
Wikipedia -- Continuous integration https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration
CI/CD concepts - GitLab Documentation   https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/introduction/
Jenkins https://www.jenkins.io/
GitHub Actions https://github.com/features/actions
Circleci https://circleci.com/
Azure DevOps https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/user-guide/what-is-azure-devops?toc=%2Fazure%2Fdevops%2Fget-started%2Ftoc.json&view=azure-devops